[Core v1.12 beta2] JavaScript UDFs (#9180)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/udfs.md

	</Tabs>

:::important UDF support

> Additional languages (for example, Java, Scala) aren't currently supported for UDFs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JavaScript UDFs are supported in dbt Core v1.12+ (beta) on Snowflake and BigQuery.Additional languages (for example, Java, Scala) aren't currently supported for UDFs.
```

> Additional languages (for example, Java, Scala) aren't currently supported when developing UDFs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional languages (for example, Java, Scala) aren't currently supported for UDFs.
```

    ```
    </File>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="JavaScript">

    You can optionally set [`snowflake.quote_args`](/reference/resource-configs/quote_args) to control whether argument names are quoted when creating a JavaScript UDF on Snowflake.

    <File name='functions/schema.yml'>

    ```yml
    functions:
      - name: is_positive_int                    # required
        description: My UDF that returns 1 if a string represents a naked positive integer (like "10", "+8" is not allowed). # optional
        config:
          snowflake:                             # optional
            quote_args: true                     # optional, JavaScript UDFs on Snowflake only
        arguments:                               # optional
          - name: a_string                       # required if arguments is specified
            data_type: string                    # required if arguments is specified
            description: The string to check     # optional
        returns:                                 # required
          data_type: integer                     # required
    ```
    </File>
    </TabItem>
    </Tabs>

    :::info volatility warehouse-specific

>    	Something to note is that `volatility` is accepted in dbt for SQL, Python, and JavaScript UDFs, but the handling of it is warehouse-specific. For SQL and Python UDFs on BigQuery, `volatility` is ignored and dbt displays a warning. For JavaScript UDFs on BigQuery, `deterministic` and `non-deterministic` are applied when creating the UDF; `stable` is not supported. In Snowflake, all supported volatility values are applied when creating the UDF. Refer to [volatility](/reference/resource-configs/volatility) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   	`volatility` is accepted in dbt for SQL, Python, and JavaScript UDFs, but the handling of it is warehouse-specific. For SQL and Python UDFs on BigQuery, `volatility` is ignored and dbt displays a warning. For JavaScript UDFs on BigQuery, `deterministic` and `non-deterministic` are applied when creating the UDF; `stable` is not supported. In Snowflake, all supported volatility values are applied when creating the UDF. Refer to [volatility](/reference/resource-configs/volatility) for more information.
```

    ```
    </File>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="JavaScript">

>     JavaScript UDFs don't require additional configs beyond the standard [function properties](/reference/function-properties). You can optionally set a Snowflake-specific config to control argument quoting:

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need this callout, since SQL UDFs also don't require additional configs

    - [`snowflake.quote_args`](/reference/resource-configs/quote_args): Controls whether argument names are quoted when creating the UDF on Snowflake. Defaults to `true`.

    <File name='functions/schema.yml'>

    ```yml
    functions:
      - name: is_positive_int                    # required
        description: My UDF that returns 1 if a string represents a naked positive integer (like "10", "+8" is not allowed). # optional

>         config:

Author: @sriramr98 based on this [PR](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-adapters/pull/1860/changes), this is the syntax for `quote_args`. However, when I tried building, I got this warning: 

<img width="571" height="66" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/94f57448-05f9-4ed7-8a5f-c45c0ec41ae5" />

Should this be under `meta`?

Reviewer 3: Your document is correct. I'm aware of this warning and it'll be fixed in the next beta release.

          snowflake:                             # optional

>             quote_args: true                     # optional, Snowflake only

Reviewer 2: should we also say this is only for javascript UDFs?

    dbt build --select is_positive_int
    ```

>     When you run `dbt build`, both the `functions/schema.yml` file and the corresponding SQL, Python, or JavaScript file work together to generate the `CREATE FUNCTION` statement.

Reviewer: Hiya @luna-bianca 

I believe `schema.yml` is legacy naming, unless it's been agreed with the PMs, they may need to be updated / referred to as a "YAML properties file" in prose, and consider whether the filename in code examples should be updated too for consistency with how we name things across the docs.

    In your DAG, a UDF node is created from the SQL/Python and YAML definitions, and there will be a dependency between `is_positive_int` → `my_model`.
   <Lightbox src="/img/docs/building-a-dbt-project/UDF-DAG.png" width="85%" title="The DAG for the UDF node" />

> After defining a UDF, if you update the SQL, Python, or JavaScript file that contains its function body (`is_positive_int.sql`, `is_positive_int.py`, or `is_positive_int.js` in these examples), its configurations, or its properties defined in the `.yml` file (such as `arguments` or `returns`), your changes will be applied to the UDF in the warehouse next time you `build`. dbt detects all of these changes when using [`state:modified`](/reference/node-selection/methods#state).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After defining a UDF, if you update the SQL, Python, or JavaScript file that contains its function body (`is_positive_int.sql`, `is_positive_int.py`, or `is_positive_int.js` in these examples), its configurations, or its properties defined in the `.yml` file (such as `arguments` or `returns`), your changes will be applied to the UDF in the warehouse next time you run `dbt build`. dbt detects all of these changes when using [`state:modified`](/reference/node-selection/methods#state).
```

> After defining a UDF, if you update the SQL, Python, or JavaScript file that contains its function body (`is_positive_int.sql`, `is_positive_int.py`, or `is_positive_int.js` in these examples), its configurations, or its properties defined in the `.yml` file (such as `arguments` or `returns`), your changes will be applied to the UDF in the warehouse next time you run `dbt build`. dbt detects all of these changes when using [`state:modified`](/reference/node-selection/methods#state).

Reviewer: I'd suggest breaking this down into bullets as it's quite long

For more information about selecting UDFs, see the examples in [Node selector methods](/reference/node-selection/methods#file).

## Limitations

> - Creating UDFs in other languages (for example, Java or Scala) is not yet supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- UDFs in other languages (for example, Java or Scala) are not yet supported.
```
